---
title: 'Blog Post number 3'
date: 2018-08-14
permalink: /posts/2018/08/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---


### What is Serverless?

From the content of the previous section, we can know so many points:

 -In serverless applications, developers only need to focus on the business, and the rest of the operation and maintenance tasks do not need to worry about
 -Serverless is ** true on-demand ** and only runs when a request arrives
 -Serverless counts money by runtime and memory
 -Serverless applications rely heavily on specific cloud platforms and third-party services

Of course, these are all nothingness.

According to AWS's official introduction to Serverless:

> The server architecture is an Internet-based system where application development does not use regular service processes. Instead, they rely only on a combination of third-party services (such as AWS Lambda services), client logic, and services hosting remote procedure calls. "[^ Aws_serverless]

In an AWS-based Serverless application, the components of the application are:

 -Gateway API Gateway
 To accept and process thousands of concurrent API calls, including traffic management, authorization and access control, monitoring, etc.
 -Computational service Lambda for all calculations related to code, such as authorization verification, requests, output, etc.
 -Infrastructure Management CloudFormation to create and configure AWS infrastructure deployments, such as the name of the S3 bucket used
 -Static storage S3 as a place for front-end code and static resources
 -Database DynamoDB to store application data
 - and many more

Taking the blog system as an example, when we visit a blog, it is just a GET request, and S3 can provide us with the front-end static resources and the response HTML.

! [Serverless SPA Architecture] (images / serverless-spa-architecture.png)

And when we create a blog:

 -Our request first came to API Gateway, API Gateway Charger + 1
 -Then the request came to Lambda for data processing, such as generating ID, creation time, etc., Lambda Charger + 1
 -Lambda stores data on DynamoDB after calculation, DynamoDB Charger + 1
 -Finally, we will generate a static blog to S3, and S3 only charges for storage when it is used.

In the process, we used a series of stable cloud services and only billed when they were used. Since these services can be called naturally and conveniently, we actually only need to focus on our Lambda functions and how to use these services to complete the entire development process.

Therefore, Serverless does not mean that there is no server, just that the server exists as a third-party service with a specific function.

Of course, these cloud services (such as AWS) are not necessarily used to be called serverless. For example, my colleague in "[Serverless combat: build a personal reading tracking system] (https://blog.jimmylv.info/2017-06-30-serverless-in-action-build-personal-reading-statistics-system/) 》, Using: IFTTT + WebTask + GitHub Webhook technology stack. It just means that some of the services in all your applications use third-party services directly.

In this case, the layering between systems may become one service after another. Originally, in today's mainstream microservice design, each domain or subdomain is a service. In serverless applications, these domains and subdomains may be further divided into serverless functions because of their functions.

! [Smaller function] (images / mono-ms-sls.jpg)

It's just that these services and functions are more granular than before.

### Event-driven programming

Serverless calculations only mean that it is a "strict" event-driven calculation.

> Event-driven programming is a computer programming model. The program execution flow of this model is determined by the user's actions (such as mouse keys and keyboard keys) or messages from other programs. In contrast to batch programming, the flow of a program is determined by the programmer. Batch programming is a way to teach in elementary programming courses. However, this design model of event-driven programming was born in the context of an interactive program. [^ wiki_event_driver]

This also means that the system has changed dramatically in the programming model. When we write GUI programs, such as desktop programs and web front-end applications, we start listening to user operations on components such as buttons and links before we start the corresponding processing logic. This is similar to Serverless. Only when the user uses it, it will respond to the user's behavior.

Serverless advantages
---

When I use the Serverless Framework to develop AWS Serverless applications, the most convenient is that there is no difference between the first deployment and the second and third deployments. Just execute `` serverless deploy '', and in a few minutes, our code will run online. If it's a traditional AWS application, I need to SSH to my server to deploy it so that I can write my automatic deployment script. In addition, I need to worry about which users are using this process.

In addition, I find it convenient to deploy and there is reasonable price. My AWS EC2 instance runs my blog and a few other networks. However, my blog with only about 500 PVs is idling most of the time. I feel a bit wasteful, but Serverless, which charges only for running, will not have such problems. Let me boldly use these services. Of course, there are other significant advantages.

### Reduce startup costs

When we develop a web application as a company, when developing, we need version management server, continuous integration server, test server, application version management warehouse and other basic services. When running online, in order to cope with a large number of requests, we need a good database server. When our application is targeted at ordinary users, we need to:

 -Mail service for sending reminders, registration and other services
 -Short message service (according to national real name regulations), used for user authorization operations such as registration and login

For large companies, these are ready-made infrastructure. But for start-ups, these are some startup costs.

#### Reduce operating costs

For start-ups, they have no infrastructure, no financial resources, and may not be able to build infrastructure. Adopting cloud services is often the best option and can save a lot of money. They can focus on: creating products that are valuable to users. If a startup uses cloud services instead of building its own servers. Then he will have ** more time ** to develop business functions instead of focusing on these. You only pay for the software at runtime.

The biggest difference between Serverless that uses ** function calculations and cloud servers is that ** cloud servers need to be running all the time, while function calculations are calculated on demand **. On-demand calculation means that the function is only run when a request arrives. When no request is made, no money is counted.

At the beginning of the project, the number of users tends to increase slowly, and when we choose a server, we tend to estimate it based on the number of users that may appear. At this time, some unnecessary costs are often wasted. However, even if users suddenly burst, Serverless applications can easily handle it. Just modify the database configuration and redeploy one.

#### Reduce development costs

A successful serverless service provider should be able to provide a range of ** supporting services **. This means that you only need to write in the configuration file, the table name of this database, then our data will be stored in the corresponding database. Furthermore, ** If a service provider provides a series of function calculation templates, then we only need to write our configuration. This series of things can be done automatically and efficiently.

In this case, ** Using a certain cloud service, it will be as easy to call the API that comes with a certain system **.

Of course, designing applications as stateless applications can be a challenge for early systems. In addition, a huge system such as AWS cannot be easily digested by a novice programmer.

### Achieve fast launch

For a web project, starting a project requires a series of hello, world. When we build the environment locally, it is a hello, world. When we deploy the program to the development environment, it is also a deployment-related hello, world. Although it looks a little different, in general, it works!

Serverless's deployment advantages make it easy for you to go live.

#### Faster deployment pipeline

In fact, the reason why serverless applications have an advantage in deployment is that they are equivalent to ** built-in automated deployment **-when we are developing applications, we are constantly enhancing the deployment function.

In our daily development, in order to achieve automated deployment, we need to manually deploy first to design a relevant error-free deployment configuration, such as Docker's Dockerfile, or Ansible's playbook. In addition, we need to design blue-green release and other functions.

In function computing and serverless applications, these are functions provided by the vendor. Every time we finish writing the code, we just need to run: `` sls deploy`` is enough. In function calculations such as AWS Lambda, functions are generally ready to be called within seconds of uploading.

This means that when we use a template to develop our application as usual. We can complete the first deployment within minutes of cloning the code.

The only difficulty may be what configuration type of service to choose, such as which level of throughput to use DynamoDB and which memory size Lambda calculation.

#### Faster development

Thanks to the serverless service provider, a series of basic services have been prepared. As developers, we only need to focus on how to better achieve the business, rather than some technical limitations.

The service provider has prepared and tested this series of services for us. They are basically stable and reliable without encountering particularly large problems. In fact, when we have sufficiently powerful code, such as using tests to ensure robustness, then combined with continuous integration, we can directly deploy to the production environment when PUSH code. Of course, it may not be so troublesome, we just need to add a predeploy hook, do some automatic testing work in this hook, and then directly release the new version locally.

In this process, we don't need to consider too many release matters.

### Higher system security

In my experience maintaining my blog, keeping the server running is not always easy. Inadvertently, you will always find Cracker attacking your website. We need to prevent different types of attacks. For example, there have been hackers trying to log in with passwords on my server, but my blog's server requires a key to log in. After a magical login attempt, my SSH daemon crashed. This means that I can only restart the server from the EC2 background.

With Serverless, I no longer need to worry about someone trying to log in to the system, because I don't know how to log in to the server.

I no longer need to consider the underlying security issues of the system. Every time I log in to AWS EC2, I always need to update the software. Whenever I see a software vulnerability, such as the previous OpenSSH, I log in to check the version and update it. software. Real TM is time-consuming and labor-intensive.

The only thing you need to worry about is someone launching a DDOS attack. According to the calculation of [Could Zombie Toasters DDoS My Serverless Deployment?] (Https://thenewstack.io/zombie-toasters-eat-startup/), each million requests is about $ 0.2, and 360,000,000 requests per hour, That's 72 knives.

### Adapt to microservice architecture

As we can see in the last few years, microservices have not replaced a large number of monolithic applications-after all, using new architectures to replace old systems is not of great business value. Therefore, for many companies, there is no such strong demand and urgency. It is more urgent to live.

Serverless is inherently complementary to microservices architecture. A serverless application has its own gateway, database, and interface. You can also develop services in your favorite language (limited by the service provider). In other words, in this case, a serverless might be a perfect microservice instance.

In the visible year or two, Serverless will replace some components and services in some systems.

### Auto-scaling capabilities

Behind Serverless is FaaS (Function as a Services) such as AWS Lambda.

For traditional applications, the way to respond to more requests is to deploy more instances. However, this time is often too late. For FaaS, we don't need to do this, FaaS will automatically expand. It can launch as many instance copies as needed without lengthy deployment and configuration delays.

This depends on our service being stateless so that we can run new instances without hesitation.

Serverless problems
---

As an application that is started at runtime, Serverless also has problems that we need.

### Not suitable for long running applications

Serverless runs only when a request arrives. This means that when the application is not running, it will enter the "sleep state". When the request comes next time, the application will require a startup time, that is, ** cold start **. At this time, you can use the CRON method or CloudWatch to periodically wake up the application.

If your application needs to run uninterrupted for a long time, processing a large number of requests, then you may not be suitable for serverless architecture. In this case, a cloud server like EC2 is often a better choice. Because EC2 is cheaper in terms of price.

Quoting [Lu Zou] (https://www.zhihu.com/people/lu-zou-36) In "[It took 1000G, I finally figured out what Serverless is (on): What is Serverless architecture? ] (https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/31122433) ":

> EC2 is equivalent to buying a car, and Lambda is equivalent to renting a car.

The cost of long-term car rental is definitely more expensive than buying a car, but you lose a part of the maintenance cost. Therefore, this question is actually a question worthy of further calculation.

### Depends entirely on third-party services


Yes, when you decide to use a cloud service, it means that you may have gone a no return. In this case, you can only put trivial APIs on Serverless.

When you already have a lot of infrastructure, serverless is not a good thing for you. When we adopt the serverless architecture, we are tied to special service providers. We used AWS home services, so it was not so easy to move our services to Google Cloud.

We need to modify the underlying code of the series. The response plan that we can take is to establish an isolation layer. This means that when designing an application, you need to:

 -Isolate API Gateway
 -Isolate the database layer, considering that there are no mature ORM tools on the market, allowing you to support both Firebase and DynamoDB 
 - and many more

These will also bring us some additional costs, which may ** bring more problems than we solve **.

### Cold start time

As mentioned above, serverless applications have a problem with cold start time.

According to the official New Relic blog "[Understanding AWS Lambda Performance—How Much Do Cold Starts Really Matter?] (Https://blog.newrelic.com/2017/01/11/aws-lambda-cold-start-optimization/)" Said that AWS Lambda has a cold start time.

! [AWS startup time] (./ images / aws-lambda-monitoring-functions-chart.png)

Or the request response time I calculated before:

! [Serverless request time] (images / times.png)

Although this cold start time can be within 50ms in most cases. For Node.js applications, Java and C # with virtual machines may not be so lucky.

### Lack of debugging and development tools

When I used the Serverless Framework, I encountered this problem: lack of debugging and development tools. Later, after discovering a series of plugins such as serverless-offline and dynamodb-local, the problem has improved.

However, this is still a daunting challenge for logging systems.

Every time you debug, you need to upload the code over and over. And every time you upload, you seem to be deploying the server. Then Fuck, I can't always quickly locate the problem. So, I modified the code, added a line `` console.log '', and deployed the code again. The problem was solved, it was good, I deleted `` console.log '', and then deployed the code again.

Later, I learned well and found a node.js library `` winston '' similar to log4j that can record logs at different levels. It can support six different levels of logs: error, warn, info, verbose, debug, and silly.

### Complex construction

Serverless is cheap, but that doesn't mean it's simple.

Earlier, after knowing AWS Lambda, I wanted to try something. But CloudForamtion makes me feel too difficult, its configuration is so complicated, and it is difficult to read and write (JSON format).

Considering the complexity of CloudForamtion, I regained some confidence after I contacted the Serverless Framework.

Serverless Framework is simpler to configure and is in YAML format. At deployment time, the Serverless Framework generates a CloudForamtion configuration based on our configuration.

Data thought in that "[Kinesis Firehose Persistent Data to S3] (https://www.phodal.com/blog/serverless-development-guide-use-kinesis-firehose-stream-data-s3/)" In the statistics article, we introduced the configuration of the serverless framework. Compared with the general Lambda configuration, the configuration here is slightly more complicated. However, this is not a real production configuration. I mean, the real application scenario is far more complicated than this.

### Backward language version

When Node.js 6 came out, AWS Lambda only supported Node.js 4.3.2; when Node.js 9.0 came out, AWS Lambda supported 6.10.3.

Here are the following runtime versions that AWS Lambda supports:

 -Node.js-v4.3.2 and 6.10.3
 -Java-Java 8
 -Python – Python 3.6 and 2.7
 -.NET Core – .NET Core 1.0.1 (C #)

For Java and Python, their versions are basically enough, I don't know how C # is. But the version of Node.js is obviously a bit old, but it's all Node.js 9.2.0. However, in other words, this may have something to do with the wave of front-end versions brought by the version of Emperor Chrome.

Use cases for Serverless
---

Although Serverless has some disadvantages in writing traditional Web applications. However, its event-driven and runtime calculations make it quite suitable in some scenarios.

### Send notification

As we mentioned in the previous section, for things like PUSH Notification, [mail notification interface] For this type of service, they all need infrastructure to build. Moreover, their requirements for real-time performance are relatively not so high.

Even if it comes a few seconds late in time, users can still accept it. In the examples of text messages we have seen, it is generally assumed that users can receive text messages within 60 seconds. Therefore, the user will not be annoyed by an error of 1s at this time. For APP's message push, this requirement is even lower, and users do not want to receive such pushes.

### WebHook

When we don't have a server and want a Webhook to trigger our series of operations. We can consider using Serverless, we don't need to pay for a server like this all the time. With Serverless, we can easily do this kind of work and save a lot of money.

A more obvious example is [GitHub Hooks] (https://www.phodal.com/blog/serverless-development-guide-create-github-hooks/)

> Webhook on GitHub allows us to build or set up a GitHub application that subscribes to certain events on GitHub.com. When one of these events is triggered, we will send an HTTP POST payload to the URL configured by the webhook.

For example, when we PUSH the code, we want to trigger our continuous integration. At this time, you can do such a thing through a Webhook.

### Lightweight API

Serverless is particularly suitable for lightweight, fast-changing APIs.

Actually, I never thought of a suitable example. In my imagination, an AutoSuggest API may be such an API, but this API is often accompanied by quite complicated business in some cases.

So, I want to give an example of the Feature Toggle, although there are some inappropriate. But it may be the most valuable part.

### IoT

When we talk about the Internet of Things, we will talk about event triggering, transmission protocols, massive data (data storage, data analysis). With Serverless, so much data can be handled easily.

For the server side of an IoT application, the system needs to collect data from various places, and create pipelines to process, filter, transform, and store the data in the database.

For hardware developers, connecting different hardware is a challenge in itself. And directly using countries such as AWS IoT can help us better develop applications that write server-side connections to a certain extent.

At the same time, for clients of IoT applications, data needs to be extracted from the database for display. This part may not be a challenge.

### Statistical Analysis

The statistics itself requires very little calculation, but the graphs can be generated on a regular basis.

When receiving data, we do not need to consider any problems caused by delay. The delay of 50 ~ 200 ms will not affect our system.

### Trigger and scheduled tasks

Serverless ** probably ** is a good stage for programs that need crawlers to crawl and generate.

Although this kind of work can also be done by the cloud server, we only need to start the server periodically. Do the corresponding thing through the self-starting script in the server, but after we have completed a series of work. We need to store the data on a remote server. In order to allow other applications in the system to directly access these data. Well, we might consider using a cloud database. At this time, serverless applications seem more attractive.

In that article "CRON Scheduled Lambda Tasks", we can also see that AWS Lambda can support Lambda calculations, start services regularly, and calculate.

### Lean Startup

! [Landing Page] (images / launch-page.jpg)

The rapid launch and development of Serverless means that it can quickly verify an idea MVP. For example, Dropbox only created a Landing Page at the beginning. As a user who wants to use this service, we will fill in our mailbox.

And if you use Serverless to build such an application, then we only need to create a static page, and then use a Serverless service to save the user's mailbox to the database, such as [serverless-landingpage] (https: // (github.com/phodal/serverless-landingpage).

### Chat Robot

Chatbots are also a pretty good application scenario.

But, due to domestic conditions (information supervision), this is not an easy task. Therefore, from the channels (such as WeChat, blabla), they are reducing the possibility in this regard as much as possible.

However, we can also do a WeChat public account service. When a user enters a keyword, a corresponding response is made, which is basically similar to a chatbot. It only needs to be combined with [Serverless and Lambda-based WeChat Public Platform] (https://www.phodal.com/blog/serverless-development-guide-serverless-lambda-wechat-public-platform/), and it can be easily implemented. And achieve fast launch.

other
---

### Migration scheme

Express application examples

### Serverless Framework

> Serverless Framework is a serverless application framework and ecosystem designed to simplify the development and deployment of AWS Lambda applications. Serverless Framework is provided as a Node.js NPM module, filling many gaps in AWS Lambda. It provides several sample templates to quickly start AWS Lambda development.

### Apex

> Apex makes it easy to build, deploy, and manage AWS Lambda capabilities. Nodes can use languages ​​that are not supported by AWS Lambda (such as Golang), js shim is injected into the build, providing various functions for testing functions, rolling back deployments, viewing metrics, tracking logs, connecting to the build system and more Workflow related tools.

### Apache OpenWhisk

> OpenWhisk is a distributed, event-driven computing service. OpenWhisk runs application logic to respond to events or call web or mobile applications directly via HTTP.

[^ aws_serverless]: https://aws.amazon.com/cn/blogs/china/iaas-faas-serverless/
